Okay, so earlier today, the Enthropic
employees basically vibe coded a little
too hard and accidentally released what
is essentially the source code for
Claude Code. Now, over the last few
hours, Twitter has been blowing up
because people have been dissecting the
source code in all sorts of ways. But in
this video, I want to go through all the
upcoming features in Claude Code as
evident from the source code itself.
Now, do bear in mind they may or may not
release these features and the features
may be different by the time they're
released, but this is the present state
as in the source code itself. Now, first
of all, we have a upcoming proactive
mode in Cloud Code. Up until now, Claude
Code has been reactive whereby you give
it a task and then it will basically do
it for you and then wait for your next
input. But what they're doing here is
they're basically having Claude code run
around the clock. So there's like an
interval and it basically decides are
there any tasks that need to be done. It
explores a codebase and then it will do
the task and then it will go back to
sleep until there's another task that it
deems that is worth doing. So they're
kind of shifting away from this reactive
mode where cloud code only waits for
your input to proactive mode where it's
working around the clock for you. So you
may have cloud code hooked up to Slack
via channels and then it sees a Slack
message and decides to implement it then
and there. It notices any to-dos in the
comments of your codebase. It just does
them. It sees that a new file has been
added. So it like reviews those new
files. It may notice some tests are not
passing and then it will automatically
fix them. Basically, we will find that
claude code will soon be much more
active in doing tasks for us that need
to be done. And I do have a previous
video about this where I basically
talked about how Enthropic are heading
towards a software factory model that
you can watch as well. So, next up,
we're going to have some background
skill improvement added whereby every
five user messages, cloud code will
basically do some analysis behind the
scenes of those user messages and ask
like what should be changed about the
skill based on what the user said. So,
for example, if you triggered a skill
and then you corrected it and said, "No,
actually use this other thing instead."
Then Claude Code will automatically
update the skill in the background. And
maybe they will add some kind of review
feature at the end being like, "Hey, I
noticed the skill needs updating in this
particular way." But I think this is a
much better approach going forwards
whereby a lot of people make a skill
like really well the first time and then
it slowly falls out of date and they
forget to update it. So by having
background agents that automatically
improve our skills for us can lead to
better results in the long term. Next
up, we're going to have an away summary
whereby claude code will automatically
see if the terminal isn't focused. And
if you switch away from the terminal to
another program for more than 5 minutes
and then come back to terminal, it will
automatically tell you what it did
whilst you were away with a nice
summary. So this can be handy because
then when you come back you don't have
to scroll up through the session history
to find out what cloud code did whilst
you were away because it will
automatically tell you. Next up we will
have a coordinator mode whereby
currently right now in cloud code you
have a single agent mode where it just
reads messages. It may spin up a sub
agent run commands and stuff like that.
So most of the time the default behavior
of cloud code is it will automatically
read run commands and write files. It
may occasionally delegate things to sub
aents. Now essentially in coordinated
mode you will find that claude will
basically not do any work with inside of
the main context window and it will
delegate it amongst a team of sub aents.
So essentially claude code will never
touch your codebase directly. It will
always touch it via a kind of worker sub
agent. Now in coordinator mode we may be
in one of four phases. The first phase
could be a research phase whereby Claude
will automatically decide to spin up
parallel workers which will read through
the codebase kind of like the planning
mode how it does currently to understand
how things work and fit together. Then
there will be a synthesis whereby the
coordinator will review all the reports
from the researchers to identify gaps
and figure out where there are
contradictions and stuff like that. And
then any implementation that needs to be
done will be delegated to task specific
sub aents. And then there will be more
sub aents that kind of do validation and
verification via tests. Now you don't
actually have to wait until the
coordinator mode is released because you
can essentially do this with a good cla
file and sub aent teams. But it seems
that the enthropic team basically
discovered that this is a good approach.
And coincidentally I also discovered
that this is a good approach which I
talked about in my cloud code masterass
about one month ago. So if you do want
to stay ahead in terms of cloud code,
then this is the best place to do so. A
lot of people from some of the world's
biggest companies have taken this and
have found it really useful and many of
them have become the best cloud code
users at their companies. You will find
that many of the ideas that I talk about
within this masterass have become
mainstream many months later. So if you
want to stay ahead on the curve and be
like learning the best cloud code
practices before pretty much anyone
else, then this is the best place to do
so. Anyways, they will also be adding a
verification agent. So the default
behavior of cloud code is it's kind of
like an optimistic developer where it
kind of assumes that something works. It
runs like basic and shallow tests. It
reads a code that it wrote itself and is
like, "Oh, this obviously works because
I wrote it." But now Cloud Code is
adding an adversarial agent which will
have a pessimistic approach and it will
default assume that anything breaks and
try to actively break the code. And to
show you just how early I am when it
comes to this stuff, I was talking about
this concept 7 months ago in my video on
how I used codeexi to fix cloud code.
And then 7 months later, OpenAI released
a codeex plug-in for cloud code so you
can automate the process that I was
talking about 7 months ago. So yeah, if
you do want to stay ahead on the curve,
then my cloud code masterass is the best
place to do so because ideas that I
talked about here become mainstream many
months later. But I actually don't know
how much of an impact this would have
because it's likely going to be using
the exact same model except with a
different system prompt to try and find
those problems. But I find that it's
better to use a completely different
model like GT 5.4 because it can find
much more mistakes. So even though
they're adding this, I don't think it
will be as good as using a different
model. But I think one difference with
this verification agent is that it
basically has a bunch of strategies to
figure out and find problems. So it can
spin up a development server and then do
like browser automation for UI testing.
It will run curl requests to like
different endpoints to make sure the API
is robust. It will try to reproduce a
bug itself first before trying to fix
it. And it will do stuff like making
sure database migrations are reversible.
Cloud code will also be adding token
budgets as a way of forcing deep work.
So currently right now cloud code will
just decide like okay I think I'm done
with this and then give you a pretty
simple answer. and it may have only used
about 3 4,000 tokens to come up with
that answer for you. But you may have a
task which you want cloud code to do a
really big deep dive into like doing
really deep research online or in a
complicated codebase for example. In
this case, you can specify a token
budget. So you can tell Cloud Code,
okay, we got to use at least 500,000
tokens here. So essentially, you're
telling it to spend a minimum dollar
amount of compute and then Claude will
decide to stop once it either reaches a
budget threshold, which is 90% of the
token budget you assign to it. So if you
assign a token budget of 1 million and
it reached 900,000, then it would stop.
And secondly, it would stop when it
thinks that progress is slowing down.
And I think internally they defined like
if the last three continuations where
Cloud Co just keeps continuing, returns
less than 500 tokens. But maybe they
will adjust this in some way. But
essentially, you now have a hard minimum
whereby if you have a really complicated
task and you want the best possible
answer from cloud code, you can define
it to use a minimum number of tokens.
And I think the interesting meta point
here is that Enthropic basically making
easier for us to use even more tokens
with token budget and the proactive
thing that I mentioned earlier. Next up,
if they move ahead with this, there will
be a ultra plan mode where basically
Claude will automatically connect to a
remote session on the Claude code
runtime and then automatically upload
your repo onto it and then the cloud
code runtime will be doing a deep plan
and they may have some kind of like
internal system prompt for this or
something like that or deep planning
architecture and it has like a time ad
of 30 minutes maximum. Then your local
session of cloud code will automatically
check the cloud code runtime the cloud
version every 3 seconds to make sure
that everything has been done. And if it
has been done then you can view the plan
on cloud.ai. If you reject it then it
will go back into runtime. If you accept
it then you can either have the plan
executed locally on your terminal or
have the plan executed remotely on the
cloud code runtime. I'm really curious
what kind of system prompt and
architecture they will use for this
brand new ultra planning mode, but I
imagine it will be kind of hidden from
us because it will be running on their
own cloud version instead. Anyways, they
will also be adding a templating job
system inside of cloud code. So right
now all your conversations with cloud
code are ephemeral whereby you give it a
task, it replies and then you basically
go back and forth and tomorrow you may
end up doing the exact same thing. So
what this persistent job template system
will basically do is cloud will
automatically identify when something
needs to be turned into a job and then
it will turn it into a job template for
you. So this means that tomorrow when
you're doing a very similar task then
you can basically reuse the same
template that claude code automatically
made for you yesterday and then there
will be a bunch of commands whereby you
could just do claude new and then do the
job name. like you'd probably be able to
do like claude new deployed to
production or something like that and
then you will be able to do claude list
to basically see which jobs are in
progress and then reply to individual
jobs without actually having to open up
the conversation for each of those jobs.
So it kind of feels like they're turning
this part of cloud code with the
templating and job thing into a task
management system of sorts. Next up, it
seems that they will be adding push
notifications as well whereby it will
automatically be able to send you
notifications probably via the clawed
app on your phone. So when a task has
been completed on the cloud then it
would send you a notification there or
on your computer if it's running in a
proactive mode. So I think this is
really handy for proactive mode whereby
if cla is running proactively I kind of
want to get a regular like understanding
via notifications of what exactly it's
doing and what it's done so far today.
We will also have realtime PR watching
with GitHub web hook subscriptions
whereby if you make a brand new PR then
another team member replies to PR or
another agent like a code review agent
replies to it then cloud will
automatically be notified okay we have a
brand new reply let's look at it and
check it out next up we will have the
option of context preserving sub agents
now when you spawn up a sub agent the
sub agent doesn't have any prior context
of the conversation except for the
system prompt that claude code gave it.
But if you are a heavy user of cloud
code, then you may find in certain
situations when cloud code decided to
spin up a subgent, then like even though
the system prompt contained a lot of
information, it didn't contain enough
information for the sub agent to do a
good job. This is kind of like a
double-sided sword whereby a sub agent
can bring a brand new perspective
because it's not distracted by all the
context that's been accumulated so far.
But in other cases, it can actually do a
worse job because it didn't have all the
context. So essentially what cloud code
will be able to do is using the same
prompt cache so far. It can spin up a
sub agent with all the prior history in
the conversation so far and then have it
do a task or have many of them running
in parallel. So you could have the
entire conversation so far be divided
amongst five parallel sub aents that are
all forked from the main conversation
doing some research some hypothesis or
whatever and then that feeds back into
main session. Next up, we will have some
kind of team memory as well. So, right
now that is automemory inside of cloud
code, but that's unfortunately
individual memory that only exists at
the local level instead, which kind of
means that knowledge is siloed and
shared context may be outdated or
drifting apart in some way. But
essentially, what cloud code will be
doing is adding a brand new directory
for projects which is like memory/team.
I don't know how this will be synced. It
may be synced in the background
automatically via like claw.ai AI or
something if you're part of a team plan.
But essentially this now becomes a
living document knowledge base that
every team member's claude contributes
to and benefits from. We will also have
some kind of bring your own computes for
cloud code. So if you use cloud code the
web version you know that you can define
environments set secrets and a bunch of
other things as well. And all of that
runs on entropic servers. But it seems
that what the cloud code team will be
providing is a docker image whereby you
can install it on your own servers
instead. And then in your own server you
can set your environment variables, MCP
configs and stuff like that. And then
when you send a task to cloud code to
the cloud then instead of running on
propic servers it will run on your own
servers. It will still of course make
requests to the enthropic API. So that
has to be whitelisted but everything
else will be happening on your own
servers instead. So this matters more
for enterprise whereby you have secure
isolation and you would have like
parallel sub aents that can spin up
really quickly on your own
infrastructure instead of being
bottlenecks by enthropics infrastructure
instead. Next up we will have a brand
new concept known as context collapse.
So right now there's a problem with
autocompact or just doing /compact
whereby your entire session history will
go to claude like the servers. It will
say summarize this conversation so far
and then that will be passed into a new
session. Now this means a lot of like
important things can be lost and a lot
of non-important things can stay. So
essentially what Claude is now going to
do is have a reversible context collapse
whereby things will have a different
risk score assigned to them. So really
long to lap for example would have a low
risk score assigned to it and would be
summarized and replaced in like line in
the conversation and and something like
a key decision that you made would have
a high risk score assigned to it. So
you'd have different blocks in your
conversation with different risk scores
and when cloud code automatically sees
that okay our context window is being
filled up then anything that is a low
risk it will replace with the summary
instead but that will still be
reversible. So I think that if cloud
code still decided it needed to see the
full message uh of that chunk instead of
the summary then it would be able to do
so in some kind of way. You can also
sync your local version of cloud code to
claw.ai AI and have that be a readon
mode. So this matters because like let's
say for example you were giving a
presentation and you wanted everyone to
see your local instance of cloud code.
You could just give them a URL to like
cloud.AI and then they could see it but
not actually make any changes. So this
is really great for demos or monitoring
someone else's instance of cloud code or
showing a team like member to get
feedback or something like that for how
you're working with cloud code. I
imagine that this will also be used for
technical interviews as well because
many companies are now interviewing for
how good someone is at using cloud code
these days. And of course remember if
you want to get better at using cloud
code then there is my master class for
doing exactly that. So right now
switching between the terminal and
claude code is like a bit tedious but it
seems that what they will do is turn it
into a single shortcut whereby you just
press it switches to terminal you press
it again it switches back to cla code.
Claude code will also make it easier to
launch and view background sessions as
well. So you could launch a background
session by just doing like claude-bg
and then give it a command over here and
then it will basically run headless on
your computer or your server. Then you
can do cloud list to see the background
sessions show the logs of any of them
attach to a particular background
session or decide to kill it instead. So
I guess a command will kind of be like
clawed ps kind of like docker ps cla
logs cloud attach and cloud kill. Next
up, we will have some kind of setting
sync whereby your settings on one
machine will automatically be encrypted
and saved on Entropic servers and then
decrypted onto another device or
something like that. So if you change
your config on one device, then that
should carry over to other devices and
over remote instances of cloud code, any
memories that you have, key bindings,
permissions, and so forth. Now there is
also an Easter egg feature that they
will be releasing tomorrow for April
Fuels. So if you don't want a spoiler
then like end the video here but if you
are interested then I will be explaining
it right now. So they will be adding
some kind of AI Tamagotchi tomorrow
whereby essentially your user ID will be
turned into a hash and then you will be
automatically assigned a companion of
sorts. So it could be like a duck,
goose, cat, dragon, robot, whatever. And
people will have different ones with
different rarities attached to them.
Anyways, I thought this was really
interesting. Do bear in mind that they
may not decide to release all of these
features and by the time they are
released they may actually work
differently to how I described. But when
the final versions of those features are
released then I will be making actual
videos about them. And if you do want to
stay updated with that, then do
subscribe to the channel because I do
make the best cloud code videos here on